---
title: Motivation
sidebar: mydoc_sidebar_docs
permalink: klaytn_design/motivation.html
folder: mydoc
---

A public cryptocurrency blockchain, such as Bitcoin or Ethereum, aims to be an unforgeable, append-only ledger that is entirely decentralized and requires no trust to be embedded in a central entity. Ideally, a public blockchain will provide a secure, transparent, and permanent record of transactions, be highly resilient against any attempts at tampering, and, importantly, be accessible to all. Applications such as public key infrastructures, document timestamping services, and, of course, electronic money should thus be able to use this shared ledger to ensure security properties, thereby ending our traditional reliance on dangerously fragile central trusted entities.

Interestingly, although the enthusiasm regarding blockchains as a foundation for trustless applications continues to grow, the adoption rate of public cryptocurrencies as components in production-ready systems remains relatively low. Instead, businesses and entrepreneurs increasingly focus on private blockchains such as Hyperledger Fabric and PoA-based networks, where access to blockchains is limited to authorized entities. A tendency towards private blockchains is especially prevalent for enterprise and industrial systems such as supply-chain tracking or payment processing — current blockchain use by businesses is typically limited to deploying a blockchain within a private, controlled environment. The rationale behind this trend is clear: private blockchains tend to yield high throughput, work well in a stable environment, operate under a predictable cost structure, and integrate with backward compatible security measures such as firewalls (FWs) and intrusion detection systems (IDSs). By contrast, public blockchains lack all the properties that private blockchains promise to businesses.

Compared to public blockchains, private blockchains typically provide the blockchain user with far more flexibility, predictable performance, and reliability. Thus, they appear to be a natural choice for enterprise systems. The fact that they are not exposed to the public also means that blockchain technology can be integrated simply as part of the backend of a public-facing service to mitigate single point of failure without changing the way in which applications interact with the service.

Unfortunately, private blockchains consequently give up much of the security, transparency, and decentralization of an ideal blockchain. Many proposed deployments, especially those deployed in a single datacenter, undermine the promised paradigm shift towards decentralization, failing to capture the essence of what makes blockchain technology revolutionary. Recall that blockchains remodel trust and transparency by providing a shared, consistent, and unforgeable distributed ledger. Applications such as trustless timestamping of documents and supply-chain tracking between mutually distrusting parties require the blockchain to serve as an infallible third-party that anybody on the planet can audit, a feature that first-party private blockchains, especially those under a single administrative domain, cannot provide. The value of such a trade-off is questionable given that private blockchains achieve limited benefits in terms of decentralization and transparency in exchange for the typical performance achieved by traditional centralized systems.

We believe that both security and performance should be the principal values of blockchains. There is a great need for a public blockchain that achieves performance and reliability similar to those of private blockchains but maintains the trust and transparency expected from a blockchain technology. Applications that will benefit from blockchain technology should not simply be run on a blockchain-based structure that offers adequate performance yet features the same trust model of a traditional centralized system.

This is exactly what Klaytn aims to achieve. It offers exceptionally high performance, solid reliability, stability, low costs, and a security model similar in complexity to that of private blockchains but with entirely open access to allow auditing blocks and far more decentralized trust.

## Blockchain Overview

A blockchain is a continuously growing list of records, called blocks, which are linked and secured using cryptography. Each block in a blockchain stores a cryptographic hash of a previous block, making the blockchain resilient to modification or forgery as altering a record in a block changes the hash of the block which consequently requires modifying all subsequent blocks.

Blockchains are ideal for building a secure append only ledger that is easy to distribute across a network of participants. To securely add blocks, participants in a blockchain network need to verify blocks consistently. Here, we categorize blockchain networks into two types on account of permissions granting who gets to validate blocks and create consensus.

The first is a public blockchain which requires no permissions to join the network and consensus process. In a public blockchain, anyone can join and verify the network by auditing blocks, and propose a new block based on the past block records, participating in the consensus process. Most notably, Bitcoin and Ethereum are known as public blockchains.

On the contrary, a blockchain network, where an owner decides who can join the blockchain and only a few participants can verify and create blocks, is called a private blockchain. Examples of technologies enabling private blockchains are Hyperledger and various PoA-based blockchains such as Kovan, one of the Ethereum test network.

While both types of blockchains share commonalities that the blockchain technology in general promises, they also offer unique value propositions for various segments of the industry, specializing in features the blockchain customers demand.

Public blockchains in general attempt to achieve high security, censorship resistance, transparency, and high availability by leveraging a large number of participants. The idea that anyone can join the network and make a consensus for the order of transactions makes public blockchains truly powerful as it draws a potentially large group of interested people, fortifying the security of the network by increasing the level of data replication (*i.e.*, more the participants, more copies of the ledger). However, it is difficult to induce meaningfully large participation without a proper incentive scheme.

To motivate people to join the network, public blockchains reward the participant or node who found the block in tokens (*e.g.*, BTC, ETH) for each successfully found block. Finding a block is generally a probabilistic competition where the odds of finding a block is proportional to the hardware resource owned by a node. The faster they compute, the more likely they get tokens. While the worth of tokens exceeds the expected investment cost, more nodes join the network.

However, the size of a network can also be disadvantageous as it takes time to propagate information across the network. For instance, in Ethereum, it takes 6.5 seconds for a newly created block to reach 50% of Ethereum nodes, which is a quite long duration considering Ethereum block latency (*i.e.*, the interval between Ethereum blocks) is approximately 15 seconds. Naturally, the size of a block should be small enough to minimize the propagation delay. Consequently, the number of transactions that are embedded in each block is limited, throttling the performance of a public blockchain.

Private blockchains, on the other hand, leverage the structure of blockchain with a few nodes. Although the security property guaranteed by a large public blockchain is no longer available, nodes in a private blockchain can trust the blocks that they agreed on. Some of the details of private blockchains has already been given in the introduction.

Indeed, private blockchains make a trade-off between security and performance. However, it is still meaningful to have consensus among non-trusted parties for a shared set of transactions even if the size of the network is small. In fact, although it has a lower replication factor and is vulnerable to DoS attacks, similar to traditional centralized systems, private blockchains do function as an infallible third party among a few nodes.


## Reason for Developing Klaytn

Klaytn sees an opportunity in both public and private blockchains. We believe current private blockchains peprform well enough and could satisfy the customers who want to disrupt the traditional market using blockchain, but the fact that they lack in decentralization makes them less attractive. As it is clear that the current technology does not solve the performance problem of public blockchain (*i.e.*, we cannot fully decentralize and yield high throughput), we choose to separate consensus and data and only decentralize the data, which comprise a blockchain, to allow the public to freely replicate and audit the network. In a nutshell, we build a blockchain platform which leverages a private consensus but makes the blocks openly available to many permissionless nodes so they can oversee the permissioned nodes. This is how Klaytn works --- a hybrid blockchain platform that is highly performant, and sufficiently decentralized. By developing Klaytn, we try to solve the following problems.

### Absence of Enterprise Consideration

Service providers or enterprise users have rigorous demands for operating services unique from those of ordinary blockchain users, for example, collecting user metrics, implementing an access control layer, protecting services and users by using FWs, and running fraud detection systems (FDSs). While these services are essential to businesses, as most of today’s services employ centralized systems to perform the tasks mentioned above, such systems are often difficult to integrate with blockchain — a framework designed for decentralization.

Let us take the example of collecting user metrics. Metrics such as API call frequency and usage patterns are critical for service providers to make data-driven decisions. Games, for instance, can maximize revenues by balancing game components based on the number of features requested by users given a period or adjusting business models based on purchase patterns. Typically, businesses prefer to perform metric collection in a centralized system because it is efficient, simple to use, and well suited for monitoring the service and deploying new collection rules at a small cost. Performing metric collection in a decentralized environment such as blockchain is challenging. In Ethereum, collecting execution records and results of a smart contract requires either running a full node to examine all transactions or triggering designated smart contracts. Both methods, of course, are extremely inefficient and limited to monitoring write requests. Furthermore, because smart contracts, once deployed, cannot be modified, a contract cannot obtain metrics other than those it’s programmed to collect. Thus, a new smart contract is necessary for additional metrics, adding more complexity as the system grows.

Evidently, enterprise users want to integrate their existing systems — systems allowing businesses to complete their operations — while benefiting from the power of decentralization provided by a blockchain. Perhaps an abstraction layer that allows businesses to leverage existing business-critical systems while providing methods to decentralize data or part of business operations rooted in a blockchain can be helpful. Nonetheless, none of the existing blockchains provide such an abstraction layer or support integration with existing, traditional systems.

### Limitations of Existing Blockchains

After conducting extensive research, we concluded that existing public blockchains are not suitable or fail to fulfill the requirements of decentralized apps (DApp) on a large scale. Although Bitcoin, the pioneering blockchain of the era, and Ethereum, which has demonstrated the potential of DApps by facilitating smart contracts, have undergone rapid development in a rather short period compared to technologies in other industries, neither blockchain system has proven to offer real-world service feasibility sufficient to motivate existing service providers to use these new technologies for their services. In the following, we will present the limitations that Klaytn has identified regarding why service providers hesitate to use public blockchains and why we ultimately decided to build a new public blockchain remedying these issues.

#### Lack of Finality

Most of today's public blockchains employ proof-of-work (PoW) variant consensus algorithms to agree on blocks, such as the Nakamoto Consensus. As demonstrated in Bitcoin and Ethereum, PoW has enabled a distributed consensus among participants without a need for trusted third parties, and has produced a secure, shared ledger of blocks.

However, because PoW is a probabilistic consensus algorithm based on network synchrony, any blockchain leveraging PoW has (1) a chance of participants finding qualified proofs simultaneously and (2) a risk of yielding multiple chains due to network partition and delay. Both problems probabilistically result in blockchain diversion, with the resultant diverged chains temporarily functioning as complete, independent blockchains. Unfortunately, participants in the diverged blockchain network are not aware that they have been separated and continue to follow the protocol to find a block and append it to the longest (or heaviest) chain. Thus, for a period, some of the blocks found in one (diverged) chain may become lost when the network synchronizes, with chains merging into a single 'mainchain.'

In PoW blockchains, a block is never final — this is called the lack of finality. Lack of finality adds uncertainty to a blockchain and impacts blockchain-based applications and service providers who run these applications. In PoW blockchains, clients or applications should vigilantly check values written to a block for some suggested number of confirmations (*e.g.*, six confirmations for Bitcoin). While these suggestions mainly rely on heuristics, the overhead and the delay incurred from waiting for a block to finalize leads to unnecessary complexity and a waste of resources, consequently degrading service quality. Ethereum aims to provide intermittent finality via Casper FFG (*e.g.*, every 50th block; 12~13 minutes on average), although it is not very useful since it does not provide immediate finality.

#### Poor Performance

A widely used approach for estimating the performance of a public blockchain is measuring the transactions per second (TPS). This approach is used for comparison not only with centralized systems but also with other public blockchain platforms. In general, a blockchain with a higher TPS can afford more services without degrading service quality.

As of May 2018, however, the performance of Bitcoin was 7 TPS, while that of its direct competitor, Ethereum, was 25 TPS. Considering that the average TPS of VisaNet, the global payment system of Visa, which facilitates electronic fund transfers throughout the world, is approximately 2,000 and that the system is designed to handle up to 56,000 TPS, the relative output of leading public blockchains is less than 1% that of Visa and other traditional systems.

Low throughput results in transaction delays, directly impacting services sensitive to latency. For instance, the average delay time of Bitcoin is approximately 78 minutes, while that of Ethereum, considered to be the fastest public blockchain as of May 2018, is seven minutes. For those services wishing to respond to user requests in a timely manner, this level of delay cannot be tolerated. Many DApps requiring low latency tend to use blockchains partially, limiting themselves to a certain variety of applications. Consequently, poor performance discourages service providers from using public blockchains.

#### Uncertain Operation Costs

One of the key considerations in running a large-scale service is its operating cost. The operation cost in web services, for instance, consists of a set of expenses incurred during operation, including the cost of running servers, the cost of maintaining storage, and the cost of providing network bandwidth. Traditionally, the cost of a service can be forecasted, and the corresponding financial plan can be prepared in advance because its operational expense is predictable, which allows a service provider to raise and utilize funds based on the prepared financial plans.

Using blockchain also comes with a cost. For Bitcoin, each transaction incurs a transaction fee proportional to the number of bytes it broadcasts; for Ethereum, every transaction executing a smart contract pays ‘gas’ based on the number of executed instructions. In a stable situation, fees function to reduce network spamming by making it costly. Nonetheless, as fees are paid in cryptocurrencies, the volatility of the underlying cryptocurrency makes them fluctuate, adding uncertainty to the operation cost of DApps running on top of Bitcoin and Ethereum.

Since cryptocurrencies do not carry intrinsic value and the exchange rate is solely determined by market demand and supply, the price for 1 BTC or 1 ETH can fluctuate. The dramatic increase in cryptocurrency prices in the last four months of 2017 is a good example; amid high speculation, during a 100-day period, the exchange rate for 1 BTC climbed from 4,764 USD (September 1) to 19,000 USD (mid-December). Although the price movement for Ethereum was not as dramatic as that of Bitcoin during the same period, the exchange rate for 1 ETH still increased from 377 USD (September 1) to 730 USD (mid-December). An increase in the exchange rate directly impacts transaction fees. As an example, for a fee fixed at 0.0001 BTC, the transaction fee (in USD) in Sept. 2017 would be only one-third the fee in Dec. 2017 (0.47 USD and 1.90 USD, respectively). Service providers should not be expected to tolerate such drastic fluctuations in operating costs.

Things become further complicated when considering the fee competitions among transactions. Bitcoin transaction fees are raised so that they are confirmed earlier than others because miners choose transactions with higher fees for the next blocks to maximize their profits. Since a hard limit on the number of transactions per block exists, these competitions occur when the network is busy due to a high volume of transactions, wagering higher fees to enable being confirmed within a short period. The heated competition eventually increases the average transaction fees, adding more uncertainty regarding operation costs. Although Ethereum has a similar reward mechanism, it relaxes the competition problem by featuring shorter block latency, thereby accommodating more transactions and eliminating the need for wagering higher fees.

The blockchain operation cost should be stable to attract service providers. If a service provider uses the Amazon Web Service (AWS) to operate a service for a year, it would be possible to plan a detailed yearly payment schedule based on expected usage. Nonetheless, the same does not occur in the blockchain industry, as none of the current public blockchains resolves the uncertainty problem.  
